Hey guys.
Welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to go over template Web sites.
We're going go over the two biggest ones template monster and theme forest.
These are the two that I like the most because the ratio of what they cost to what you get is probably
the best I've seen online.
Now there's a lot of ones out there but I think these are really all that you need.
I'm going to show you how you can use these platforms to quickly whittle down what exactly are looking
for so that you're not looking at tens and thousands of templates.
I want to talk you through a little bit about how you know what you're paying for and what you should
choose to actually end up purchasing.
Now we're going to kind of connect this to the principles that we established previously when we looked
at development studios bring that all together to pick something that's going to give you a fantastic
web presence so see in the screencast.
Hey guys welcome back to the course.
In this lecture we're going to go over where you can find templates that works specifically for your
development business.
Now I talked about a little bit before why templates are a great idea a great idea because they are
extremely cheap when compared to getting something designed yourself.
And also I think it's worth noting that templates nowadays have gotten considerably better.
When I first started messing around with templates around 2000 five and six they were not nearly as
good as they are today and there's a considerable amount more of templates out there you know template
monster as an example that we're going to cover here just in a segment of a company that came out in
2002 and when they first came out for the first four years of so I saw they only had even a couple hundred
templates and now they have something like 45000.
So anyway templates are pretty much your go to if you want to start a development business and you want
to get a presence off the ground immediately.
Like I had talked previously talked about when Sprint kick started we were actually called 47 squares.
We had to use just a plain landing page template change the text change the icons and swapped out some
of the header images and that quite literally was what we operated with for almost a year and a half.
So if you are pretty much getting into this and you're trying to expand your business this is by far
the best way of going.
So the first website I want to kind of show you a little bit about is template monster template monster
does a ton of different things.
Obviously they focus primarily on templates but they also do things like PowerPoint designs.
They do a lot of different like Flash animation designs pretty much anything that applies to web technology
that can be mass produced and made into a template.
That's really what they're going to have.
You'd be surprised from messing around here on their Web site what else they have.
But primarily what they are is just a large warehouse for templates that fit pretty much any type of
thing you can think of template Montsoreau is not my favorite place and we'll talk a little bit more
about why.
I mean it mainly has to do with upselling.
But we're going to cover two different places in this lecture.
So if I were interested in producing my own development Web site and I were at Temple at Monster there's
two different ways of doing it right off the bat.
I could either pick a platform so I could pick something like Wordpress Jumah Magento or I don't even
Moto see amasses another one and I would do that if it were the case that I already had a WordPress
blog set up or a WordPress installation setup or a Jumah installation set up if I was already familiar
with their content management services and I really liked using them then what I would do is I would
just go through Wordpress and I go directly through that point and only look for things that had WordPress.
Now if you're not using a platform and that's entirely up to you if you want to use it what you can
do is just more of a generic search.
So on here all you really want to do is just go to categories.
And for us specifically it's actually just under business and services this is one way that you can
find acceptable designs.
So pretty much right off the bat there.
They show us a pretty wide variety of different things.
Now previously we had talked about studio designs and development studio designs and how they kind of
look almost any template design you find in here is going to match that format that we had previously
noticed in those popular Web sites.
Almost all of them are going to use a big header with a hook followed by individual sections and a long
page design.
But specifically Now if you decided to go through this way and you just wanted to look for business
and corporate Web sites then on the left hand side you can refine your search considerably.
So we could pick something specific to what we're doing over here.
It's not particularly helpful because they're just picking verticals they're picking areas of work or
areas of the economy and not particularly helpful for us because there is never going to be a section
just for development firms so they can go so as far as is doing like cattle poultry and sheep.
They have eight different templates for cattle farms anyway.
So what you would want to do if you wanted to refine it down here is now that you've decided that we're
in a business services section then you would go and pick your platform if you wanted to use a platform
if you didn't want to then you could pick something else down here we can set our popular features.
This is relatively easy.
It's helpful if you have responsive design.
It's getting to a point today where if you do not have responsively designed web sites that's a pretty
big negative if anyone's been following the big update and Google search results.
You're actually is damaged if you do not have a mobile friendly version.
So it's very helpful if you add in something that's already responsive.
Keep in mind typically templates that are responsive are going to be a little bit more expensive but
again it's a fantastic investment because if you had someone designed this from scratch and make it
responsive you'd be very very expensive.
Another one that I think is always worth checking is portfolio because remember we're going to be putting
a portfolio you might find that the portfolio templates on this site that are specifically tagged portfolio
might be too heavy on the portfolio.
And what I mean by that is sometimes when you click portfolio it gives you these templates that are
for creative designers and a lot of creative designers say like an artist is going to have their portfolio
as the only thing that the user should be focusing on.
And that's not usually the case if you're trying to create a development business.
But now that I've added in a couple we can see over here that there is a lot of different high quality
designs.
It's just a matter of picking something and then deciding whether or not you can retool it for your
website.
So here's just a random one that I picked.
I even picked a bank just to show you that almost virtually any theme can be retrofit towards what you're
trying to do.
So what you need to decide your template purchase based off of is the color scheme whether or not you
think the color scheme fits what you're going for what image you're trying to convey and then whether
or not you just identify individual sections that are going to be easy to modify and you can mentally
in your head kind of visualize what I'm going to put in the section so right here it's called a bank
template.
But if you scroll down about us if anybody just coming return from the previous lecture What does that
remind you of.
That was quite literally how did their website.
It was a big hook followed by about us and then right down here it shows a web application.
So this is clearly not for a bank.
This would be great if you are trying to add in a mobile portfolio item right here.
That could be something that would be interesting you could even make this matter where you actually
put a screenshot of the template you're using in it.
Do you want it to and then immediately down here here services clients and this one could very easily
CIRCE's latest events.
This could be retrofit for blog posts.
This could be retrofit for latest portfolio items.
You can make this into literally anything but because it's also a template you could quite literally
just delete the section if you couldn't think of what it's useful for.
And then down here it's the contact information.
OK so we have a long page design that's very simple uses somewhat a lot of stock photography but you
can obviously tell that this would work for a development portfolio.
It doesn't have the depth of what other Web sites have that we previously saw in the last lecture but
that's because those companies have been around for a long time they have a lot of content to display.
You're just starting off so you just want to get something that's high impact that you can get done
relatively quickly and then you start adding in layers.
OK so making a judgment on which template to purchase.
Typically I just base it off of the price and what I get for it.
This one is a WordPress theme.
So what that basically means is that I would need to set up a WordPress site on my own site host and
then install this as a theme.
I'm assuming that most of you guys out there are overly familiar with Wordpress or overly familiar with
hosting your own web sites.
I'm assuming this because this is a development business course but if you are at it's very very simple
to set up WordPress quite literally any web post out there that you pay $3 a month $10 about $20 a month
will have quick install instructions for wordpress.
Really all you would want to do is just take the name of your web host whether or not its you know dream
host or host gator or Godaddy or media temple or whatever you use plus WordPress WordPress installation
and that is quite literally easiest way you can find it through Google without even having to go through
their documentation.
You guys need any help with that just posts in the group discussion.
But anyway so I'm putting this out because while this is a design template because it comes as a WordPress
theme that saves you an enormous amount of time.
So it might be justified to pay a little bit more over here for what you're paying because you're not
going to be doing any of the programming at all it's not just a design template.
OK so after you pick what is a single site license this is where template monster kind of loses favor
with me slightly is that they try to give you a lot of upscale services and you know some of these things
over here are helpful if you are absolutely in a hurry and you're ok spending extra money getting it
done.
But some of them it just seems kind of wasteful if you know how much actual effort it goes into what
they're selling you.
Like for instance changing the color scheme that seems a little ridiculous because this is a WordPress
theme in the theme you will probably be able to change the color scheme.
So literally they're just hoping it's for someone who doesn't know that ready to use Web site again.
They're just going to open up a web host somewhere.
They're a partnership.
And then add it for you and then upload it.
They're going to charge you $300 but you could quite literally do that for about $8 or even cheaper
if you use some of those bargain dream like Barbara bargain Web hosting companies implementing your
logo again $49 to put in your logo that doesn't make any sense.
Moto press I can drop Ed..
That's something that I would only be interested in using if I if I was not familiar with say the Wordpress
theme but none of these are really ever worth it.
If you have the time if you are absolutely out of time then it might be worth it.
Like for instance this if you just wanted to get this up and get on with your life move on to your development
efforts trying to get clients and whatnot then maybe you want to do this because it will save you a
you know a half day's worth of work.
Exclusive licenses these are never really worth it if you are serious that you really really love this
design you could do that but that's more than what you should be spending on your own custom web site
down the road when you upgrade to that.
So I don't really see the point in this.
It's also difficult because they will sell you an exclusive license.
After that template has already been used.
So someone else can be definitely using it.
And that's that's not helpful.
That's not really the point of exclusive licenses.
OK so if you are in love with this template for whatever reason you could actually go ahead and buy
this.
They would deliver to you in a file that you just upload and install on your Wordpress as a WordPress
theme.
Incredibly easy.
The other way of finding designs on Temple Monsour is quite literally up here you can literally just
look for web development so you could do web development templates web design templates.
There's a little bit of a distinction here in the sense that web development is going to overly focus
on the technical nature of the business.
And so when you look at the templates on there they're going to look a little more dry whereas web design
they're assuming that these are for designers.
And so a lot of the conventions on the templates are going to be different.
Typically I actually go with web design because they're a little bit more out there and more likely
that one of these templates is going to really stick out to me.
And so really like I was saying before it's just a job of visualization what you want to do is just
look for something that has the color scheme or the feel that you like.
And then it's just a question of deciding whether or not it has some of the features you want does it.
Is it responsive.
I think it should does it have a portfolio and can you imagine where you're going to plug and play your
own information or your own images.
So for example here is one if you really like that color scheme that's great and it has a great hook
kind of type Margraf set right here very easy to notice.
The one downside though is that it's going to come with this high resolution image that goes right here
which is fantastic but what is it.
That's the problem with a lot of the templates out there.
Templates will put in stock photography that looks high resolution fantastic just not relevant.
And that's always a problem if you want to actually look and see how it looks in your browser.
Just go to view live demo.
This is actually quite helpful.
So you can get a better feel for it.
One thing that's worth noting is a lot of these things have cheesy animations.
You can turn those off and those are quite simple to actually do.
So yeah I would try to evaluate this in the same way that you would evaluate any of the other Web sites
we looked at.
So look for all of the sections and if they don't have sections they might list them generically So
just imagine where you'd put them.
Right.
So we notice here that there is a hook.
We notice that there's quite a lot of space over here for giving a value proposition pitch responsive
design clean code for 123 icons.
We would just retrofit this to say whatever we want it to say.
We could say you know fastest design or fastest development service in the business.
We could say user focused development.
And then we could put some pitch about how we give extra maintenance and service beyond the point of
developing it.
So you could say you know two years of completely free support or something like this all along those
lines.
And then you can see that there's other sections that are quite useful like running a testimonial section
over here.
You could very easily plug and play this right here.
And then down here these are always fun to put statistics.
One of the common clichés with web development businesses is they'll put you know how many cups of coffee
the team has had and how many late nights they've had and how many dogs they have running around the
office.
You can do whatever you want.
Personality is always a positive thing when it comes to web presence.
And then this is nice because you can list out your portfolio.
I obviously would suggest changing the latest works to just portfolio because remember you always want
to limit your portfolio to five to 10 either way.
So and then right here it actually has your section right off the bat for portfolio that's fantastic
what I would do is change latests works to just portfolio and then limit the size.
We cover that actually later in the course where we talked about the optimum size and selection for
your portfolio put spoiler.
It's usually 5 to 10.
You don't typically want to go over 10.
So what you do is you would want to limit this.
Okay.
And the last thing that we noticed or here is it obviously has a contact information and get in touch
box.
So this is all fantastic.
We can even view what it would look like on tablets.
This is great.
Looks very very snazzy.
And that is all pretty much typically what we would want.
Okay so template monster very good option for getting designs that you want.
I mean you could literally spend days and days on this just going through the sites and just piling
through them.
Be conscientious of what format you're getting and if it is Loizeaux type to see what it is if it's
for Wordpress for Joomla whether or not it's just a graphic design template or whatever it actually
is just you know when you buy it what does it come out like template monster.
The downside though is that they're just typically a little bit more expensive.
I think $75 is incredibly cheap for what you're getting out of it.
And for the actual quality of the designs but you can actually do cheaper if you wanted to.